# Acquisition Modes of Oscilloscope

## References and Acknowledgements

- [4-5-6-MSO_Help_077130319]

> Original: <https://wiki-power.com/>  
> This post is protected by [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en) agreement, should be reproduced with attribution.

Acquisition of an oscilloscope is the process of sampling and converting analog signals into digital data and assembling them into waveform records, which are then stored in acquisition memory. The acquisition mode determines how waveform record points are calculated from the sampled waveform data.

## Several Acquisition Modes and Their Principles

### Sample Mode

**Sample mode** retains the first sample point in each acquisition interval. This is the default mode of the oscilloscope. In this mode, the instrument does not perform any post-processing on the acquired samples.

### Peak Detect Mode

**Peak Detect mode** retains the highest and lowest values of all samples in each acquisition interval. This mode is only applicable to real-time, non-interpolated sampling and is very useful for capturing high-frequency fault signals.

### High-Resolution Mode

**High-Resolution mode** applies a unique FIR filter based on the current sampling rate, which ensures the maximum bandwidth at that sampling rate while resisting aliasing. When the available bandwidth exceeds the selected sampling rate, this filter can remove the noise from the oscilloscope amplifier and ADC.

High-Resolution mode can reduce trigger jitter and is also suitable for fast acquisition at high precision.

### Envelope Mode

**Envelope mode** adds up the peak values of periodic signals, and it uses Peak Detect mode for each round of acquisition.

### Average Mode

**Average mode** calculates the average value of each record point in multiple acquisition processes. In each separate acquisition, Sample mode is used for averaging mode. Using average mode can reduce the influence of random noise.

> This post is translated using ChatGPT, please [**feedback**](https://github.com/linyuxuanlin/Wiki_MkDocs/issues/new) if any omissions.