# Lithium Battery Selection Guide

When selecting a lithium battery, the following points are generally considered:

## Voltage

The voltage of a lithium battery is represented by `number of cells in series + s`. The rated voltage of a single lithium battery is 3.7V, fully charged it is 4.2V, and discharged it is 3.5V. Therefore, the voltage relationship for lithium batteries with different numbers of cells is as follows:

| Number of Cells | Rated Voltage (V) | Voltage Range (V) |
| :-------------: | :--------------: | :--------------: |
|       2s        |       7.4        |     7.0 – 8.4     |
|       3s        |      11.1        |    10.5 – 12.6    |
|       4s        |      14.8        |    14.0 – 16.8    |
|       5s        |      18.5        |    17.5 – 21.0    |
|       6s        |      22.2        |    21.0 – 25.2    |

## Capacity

The capacity of a lithium battery represents how much electrical energy it can store. For example, 2000mAh means it can discharge at a current of 2000mA for one hour.

## Discharge Rate

The discharge rate of a lithium battery is used to indicate the ratio of the battery's charging and discharging current ( `Maximum Discharge Current = C * Capacity`). For example, for a battery with a capacity of 1000mAh, if the discharge rate is 1C, then the discharge current is 1000mA; if it is 10C, the discharge current is 10000mA.

Choosing a sufficient discharge rate is important. During the startup or direction change of the motors in a robotic system, or when trying to achieve the transient response requirements of the system under PID control, a large instantaneous output current may be required. If the current cannot be provided, it may cause a voltage drop, resulting in voltage fluctuations in the control part, or even a microcontroller reset.

How to calculate the maximum current of the system? Generally, priority should be given to power-consuming components such as motors. Since motors are inductive loads, the current during startup can reach 4 to 7 times the rated current. Therefore, in the design, it is assumed that during the motor startup, **the current is 7 times the rated current**.

After the overall calculation, leave a margin of 20%.

## References and Acknowledgements

- [ROS Robot Hardware Platform Construction - Lithium Battery Selection for Power Supply System](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/259899605)
- [Main Parameters and Selection of Lithium Batteries](https://www.yfworld.com/?p=1114)

> Original: <https://wiki-power.com/>
> This post is protected by [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en) agreement, should be reproduced with attribution.

> This post is translated using ChatGPT, please [**feedback**](https://github.com/linyuxuanlin/Wiki_MkDocs/issues/new) if any omissions.